<a name="top"></a>
## Week 25

<!--
[Previous week]() | [Next week]()
-->

#### Week highlights

- ...

---

[Mon](#mo) | [Tue](#tu) | [Wed](#we) | [Thu](#th) | [Fri](#fr) | [Sat](#sa) | [Sun](#su)

---

<a name="mo"></a>
**Mon, 19 Jun**

Haskell

- I managed the textbooks about Haskell that I found and uploaded them to the cloud.
- I casually read chapters 1&ndash;3 from "Programming in Haskell" by Graham Hutton (2nd ed., 2016) [^tb-hutton] ([pdf](https://mega.nz/file/b10XkKKD#XLhYfT7GBsJsCgL3Nw0zCKkGzBAAvN2XbiSoIriIK-Y)) and made some notes on paper. I have decided to use this textbook as my main learning resource for Haskell basics. Additionally, I will keep "Learn You a Haskell for Great Good" by Miran Lipovača [^tb-haskel-for-gg] nearby for quick reference.
- I quickly skimmed through chapters 1, 3, and 4 of "Functional Programming For Dummies" by John Paul Mueller (2019) [^tb-dummies-mueller] ([pdf](https://mega.nz/file/i5VEiBQT#PvCSkNli-E55ae8hZ9PW0ML8DyQ6QPSaFFeVO7XWA-0)). I have decided to read it occasionally, whenever I have some spare time, to revisit useful concepts worth recalling (such as a comparison of popular programming paradigms). It might be beneficial to revisit certain topics later on, once I have gained some programming experience in Haskell, to better understand its advantages and disadvantages compared to Python.

[back](#top)

---

<a name="tu"></a>
**Tue, 20 Jun**

Haskell

I casually read Chapter 4 of Hutton's textbook[^tb-hutton] and have also [begun](https://t.me/DanilTsygolnik_edu_wip/2) a thorough examination of Chapters 1-4, creating a mind map on paper. My objective is to generate a series of concise notes that capture the most significant ideas from the textbook, connecting them through shared contexts. These notes will enhance the efficiency of material recall.

[back](#top)

---

<a name="we"></a>
**Wed, 21 Jun**

Haskell, basics

I have solved nearly every problem from Chapters 1-4 of Hutton's textbook. By referring to the textbook answers, I managed to identify and rectify a few mistakes I had made. However, several solutions still need to be verified using the `ghci` command.

I [keep making](https://t.me/DanilTsygolnik_edu_wip/3) mind maps on paper as a part of the textbook immersive reading. This process allows me to establish connections between concepts, definitions, and code examples, thus deepening my understanding of the Computer Science course. As a result, I find myself contemplating questions such as "What types of tasks can be solved using computer programs?", "How does the computer execute programs?" and "What is the underlying theory behind popular programming paradigms and styles?".

In addition to these thoughts, I have uploaded a solution to the second exercise in Chapter 1 ([6d6faf5](https://github.com/DanilTsygolnik/learn_haskell/commit/6d6faf546d20773ba7d69e7c0daa664bb53a076b)).

Unit tests

Fortunately, I stumbled upon a helpful guide that allowed me to write the first unit test for Chapter 1, Exercise 2 (as mentioned earlier). However, when I attempted to compile the code using GHC, I encountered a compilation error. This outcome didn't surprise me, as I had a hunch that I needed to build the project first. To address this, I found a couple of resources that proved useful:
- I referred to the official manual for instructions on installing the Stack software.
- I consulted the Hspec documentation, which provided insights on how to proceed.

After some reading, I decided to create a Stack project using the command `stack new tb-solutions`. By default, this command utilizes the `new-template.hsfiles` template. I delved into this template and discovered valuable information on the official wiki page. It mentioned a reference to the `kurt` template, so I conducted a search for the author's textbook. I quickly skimmed through Chapter 35, which focused on building Stack projects, and Chapter 36, which delved into unit testing. The explanations appeared to be well-presented, so I saved the book for further examination.


[back](#top)

---



[^tb-hutton]:
  - website: https://www.cambridge.org/highereducation/books/programming-in-haskell/8FED82E807EF12D390DE0D16FDE217E4
  - pdf backup: https://mega.nz/file/b10XkKKD#XLhYfT7GBsJsCgL3Nw0zCKkGzBAAvN2XbiSoIriIK-Y
[^tb-haskel-for-gg]: http://learnyouahaskell.com/chapters
[^tb-dummies-mueller]: https://www.wiley.com/en-us/Functional+Programming+For+Dummies-p-9781119527503
